<roger600_> around?
<conan> hi
<conan> y
<roger600_> :)
<roger600_> first of all sorry for this little delay on the pojos... last week i couldn't spend time on this :( 
<roger600_> anyway, doing my best again :)
<roger600_> what do you think about this
<roger600_> https://github.com/romartin/wirez/blob/06ec5134ea74e0ca047e9bdad039a812a96d0d2a/wirez-sets/wirez-bpmn/wirez-bpmn-api/src/main/java/org/wirez/bpmn/api/BPMNDefinitionSet.java
<roger600_> https://github.com/romartin/wirez/blob/06ec5134ea74e0ca047e9bdad039a812a96d0d2a/wirez-sets/wirez-bpmn/wirez-bpmn-api/src/main/java/org/wirez/bpmn/api/BPMNDiagram.java
<roger600_> https://github.com/romartin/wirez/blob/06ec5134ea74e0ca047e9bdad039a812a96d0d2a/wirez-sets/wirez-bpmn/wirez-bpmn-api/src/main/java/org/wirez/bpmn/api/property/Package.java
<roger600_> is more or less what expected?
<roger600_> then I have (for now... will refactor it a little bit) this https://github.com/romartin/wirez/blob/06ec5134ea74e0ca047e9bdad039a812a96d0d2a/wirez-core/wirez-core-backend/src/main/java/org/wirez/core/backend/BackendDefinitionManager
<roger600_> to process the runtime annotations and send to the client what needed
<conan> where are the properties of a typical node?
<roger600_> here
<roger600_> https://github.com/romartin/wirez/blob/dc12cb2ff0e69c7a006c45d74fa0b2fa7371e4f1/wirez-core/wirez-core-api/src/main/java/org/wirez/core/api/graph/Element.java
<roger600_> let me explain very quick
<conan> you are still using Set<Property>
<conan>  ?
<roger600_> when i want to create an element of the graph (node, edge, etc) from client side
<roger600_> i call the backend for it
<roger600_> and on backend side, i process the annotations and just link the properties found in this node properties
<roger600_> so
<roger600_> you can use it for dynanimc / "soft" use -> node.getProperties().get...
<roger600_> and
<roger600_> you can access the definition  pojo as well
<roger600_> node.getcontent().getNameProperty
<conan> do you have an example of that pojo?
<roger600_> which one?
<conan> of an impmented bpmn2 node
<roger600_> probalby i'm wrong eh! so jsut asking :)
<roger600_> this one -> https://github.com/romartin/wirez/blob/06ec5134ea74e0ca047e9bdad039a812a96d0d2a/wirez-sets/wirez-bpmn/wirez-bpmn-api/src/main/java/org/wirez/bpmn/api/BPMNDiagram.java
<roger600_> this is a bpmn diagram -> that corresponds to a graph
<roger600_> same for nodes and edges
<conan> I want to see a node :)
<conan> an implemented bpmn2 node
<roger600_> not yet, give me 20min :)
<conan> ok
<conan> it'll be easier to to tell then
<conan> but at a glance it looks ok
<roger600_> ok
<conan> or atleast it looks like it's neough to move forward
<roger600_> yes
<roger600_> i think so
<roger600_> one comment
<conan> we may end up doing a lot more refactoring in the future
<roger600_> sure...
<roger600_> i know
<roger600_> this is why i'm not worring about the concrete impls
<roger600_> will change for sure
<roger600_> but yes for the overall api
<roger600_> btw
<roger600_> the refactor took me more time that expected because 
<conan> as long as all propertie sare accessible, as standard pojos
<conan> then we are good
<roger600_> yes
<conan> now people may need to cast the bpmn2 node
<conan> but that's ok
<roger600_> well that's another question
<roger600_> i do not consider the definition (stencil) as a node or edge... i mean, they do not implement those interfaces
<roger600_> probbaly it's not right but this is what i understand
<roger600_> a node is a node, the difference is the content
<conan> a stencil 
<conan> is the content of the node
<roger600_> yes!
<roger600_> okkk
<roger600_> nice
<roger600_> that's it
<roger600_> so
<conan> and someimtes the container
<roger600_> this is why the node itself is not a pojo, 
<conan> i.e. a simline
<roger600_> but it contains the stencil
<roger600_> that it is
<roger600_> right¿
<conan> ((GateWay)node.getContent()).getMyRealProperty()
<roger600_> yes
<roger600_> and i have added this
<roger600_> look
<roger600_> Set<Property> properties = node.getProperties()
<roger600_> and this set
<roger600_> Set
<roger600_> contains the pojo properties
<roger600_> so on client side
<roger600_> you can dynamically get properties etc
<roger600_> this node.getProperties is build on backend
<roger600_> i check the stencil annots at runtime, get the values for the annotated methods, and add those values in the node.getProperties
<conan> btw
<conan> https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/beans/PropertyDescriptor.html
<roger600_> for the case of methods that returns a property
<roger600_> do you think is it right?
<conan> not entirely sure how well GWT works with that
<roger600_> this way i'm just doing a single backend call
<conan> it's just a Property 
<roger600_> ah
<roger600_> let me check
<roger600_> not following you :)
<conan> ignore anyway
<conan> it's tied to AWT
<roger600_> no!
<roger600_> np
<roger600_> :)
<roger600_> you can try.. :)
<roger600_> ahh
<roger600_> ok
<roger600_> i see
<roger600_> well i have interfaces for it
<roger600_> so I have for example a HasValue<T>
<conan> np
<roger600_> so i can cast the pojo on runtime
<conan> keep with what you haev for now
<roger600_> if (pojo instanceof HasValue )
<roger600_> pojo.gerValue
<roger600_> pojo.setValue
<roger600_> is it fine?
<roger600_> so the stencil is a pojo that contains properties, which are pojos that can be HasValue
<conan> ok
<roger600_> HasValues (for collections)
<roger600_> etc
<roger600_> ok
<conan> also for re-use
<roger600_> okk
<conan> you'll create subsets of properties
<conan> like General
<roger600_> yes!
<roger600_> it's called property sets
<conan> which would have ID, Description etc
<roger600_> works for you?
<roger600_> i have support too for those
<roger600_> look
<roger600_> https://github.com/romartin/wirez/blob/2f1b5ccd074ed8860ced121bc7644c7fde835041/wirez-core/wirez-core-api/src/main/java/org/wirez/core/api/definition/property/PropertySet.java
<conan> ((GateWay)node.getContent()).getGeneral().getId()
<roger600_> still not refactored as a pojo!
<roger600_> but will do now
<roger600_> yes
<roger600_> that's it
<conan> as we can only use inheritence once
<conan> and I think maybe we should use composiiton anway
<roger600_> of ((GateWay)node.getContent()).getGeneral().getNameProperty().getValue
<conan> because in theory that ocmposition
<conan> may provide the layout hints
<conan> um why getValue()
<conan> that's not projo access
<conan> thats "soft" access
<roger600_> well
<roger600_> this
<roger600_> ( (HasValue) ((GateWay)node.getContent()).getGeneral().getNameProperty()).getValue
<conan> that's not a pojo though
<roger600_> yes
<conan> that's a refelction helper
<roger600_> ok
<roger600_> agreed
<roger600_> okkk
<roger600_> np
<roger600_> right
<conan> I'm not saying e can't have that
<conan> it can be useful for reflection and dynamic stuff
<roger600_> for soft stuff
<roger600_> yess
<roger600_> ok
<conan> but pere's forms
<roger600_> great
<conan> works on pojos directly
<roger600_> on same way :)
<roger600_> ok
<conan> the properties must work as pojos
<roger600_> ok
<roger600_> yes
<roger600_> they are, but i'm forcing to implement an interface for the values, will not force it
<roger600_> so annotated methods
<roger600_> i'm really near
<roger600_> last question
<roger600_> look this - >https://github.com/romartin/wirez/blob/06ec5134ea74e0ca047e9bdad039a812a96d0d2a/wirez-sets/wirez-bpmn/wirez-bpmn-api/src/main/java/org/wirez/bpmn/api/BPMNDiagram.java
<roger600_> this a BPMN2 stencil
<roger600_> but i'm forcing it to implement Definition interface
<roger600_> because
<roger600_> i prefer it in order to use cdi discovery
<roger600_> do you like it?
<roger600_> and in addittion
<roger600_> i can get some string methods as getId or getTitile, that can be i18n
<roger600_> so better not annotated
<roger600_> is it?
<roger600_> do you like?
<roger600_> i think cdi discovery is better for us than using annotation discovery at runtime.... but only my opinion
<conan> ok
<conan> bit too abstract for me at this moment
<conan> it'll be easier
<conan> once I see it come together
<roger600_> ok
<roger600_> you mean more nodes, property sets , etc ?
<roger600_> will do now
<roger600_> the runtime processors works, so it's just creating classes.... 
<roger600_> let's sync again tomorrow with this, just let me give you a more complete example 
<roger600_> another topic
<roger600_> users management
<conan> yes
<conan> but also once it's integrarated into designer
<conan> and forms
<roger600_> pere told me to talk at finals of this week
<roger600_> he sould be working on this...
<roger600_> will ask him tomorrow np
<roger600_> about users management...
<conan> yup
<roger600_> we have discovered some issues in the wb
<roger600_> for example
<conan> I hard about the restart issue
<conan> on EAP
<roger600_> yes
<roger600_> hehe
<roger600_> you are always updated :)
<conan> hopeflly they can tell us about a hook
<roger600_> we are working on it with christian
<roger600_> i think it's just a bug
<conan> ok
<roger600_> but as said.... sorry for this but i'm really loosing lot of time with this stuff :( each little fix implies lots of testing and computer hanged for at list one hour (compile distros..) :(
<roger600_> i hope finishing it soon
<conan> ok
<roger600_> at be focused with designer at 100% soon
<roger600_> :)
<roger600_> anyway
<conan> np
<conan> I need to chase qmx
<roger600_> thx for the patience :)
<conan> to see if he's finished those toolbox's
<roger600_> still?¿?
<roger600_> he told me
<roger600_> that was finishded
<roger600_> and now working on svg resize
<roger600_> i had no news today about him
<conan> the svg resize
<conan> was for toolbox's
<roger600_> well right
<roger600_> ok
<conan> so that he could put an SVG image in there
<conan> he finsihed that yesterday
<roger600_> so what is doing now? 
<roger600_> more toolbox stuff?
<roger600_> testing?
<conan> no idea :)
<roger600_> haha :)
<conan> I need to ask
<conan> because I need him working on shape docking
<roger600_> honestly
<roger600_> i think
<roger600_> he is more focused on his personal stuff than ours
<roger600_> he was commenting me things about irc rely servers
<roger600_> configuring...
<roger600_> not sure
<conan> hmm
<conan> yeah
<conan> https://github.com/qmx?tab=activity
<roger600_> but i can't understand how it can take 2 or 3 months to build a toolbox
<roger600_> and i don't llike to criticize people....
<roger600_> but if he don¡t do the work, we are always late and so busy
<roger600_> let me  check github :)
<conan> yeah
<conan> well it's not quite that long
<conan> he had a week before xmas
<conan> and and about 2.5 weeks after xmas
<conan> but stll yeah
<roger600_> that's trye
<conan> not fast
<roger600_> yeah
<roger600_> not fast :)
<roger600_> ok
<roger600_> forget it
<conan> i'm just putting it down to the interuption of xmas
<roger600_> probably i feel to much alone :)
<roger600_> okk
<roger600_> i had a long conversation with walter about lienzo 
<roger600_> he wants to create the entities using lienzo.... are you updated on this?
<conan> yes
<roger600_> ah ok
<conan> but he needs to hold off
<conan> because we should build these as stencils
<conan> it means special stencils
<conan> that support sub elements
<roger600_> yeahh
<roger600_> ok
<roger600_> sounds good
<conan> so he needs to wait
<conan> because too much is in flux right now
<conan> I think he'd waste a lot of time
<conan> if he attempted this now
<conan> https://www.draw.io
<conan> look at Entity Relation
<conan> see how you can edit the proeprties
<roger600_> let me see
<conan> it won't be too hard to do
<conan> see how each row has it's own size and content
<conan> hmm actually in draw.io
<conan> you can drag the row out
<conan> so it's really just a composite of shapes
<conan> that snap together
<roger600_>  yes
<conan> not sure we want it that flexible....
<roger600_> all the palettes are just composites of shapes
<conan> but yeah it's just a stencil stencil for us
<roger600_> it seems not providing valudations
<roger600_> rules
<roger600_> yeah
<roger600_> ok
<roger600_> nice
<roger600_> ok will ping you tomrrow again
<conan> ok
<roger600_> hopefully with a good pojos example 
<conan> I think it can be done
<conan> with little change of what we have
<roger600_> sure
<conan> it's just a more complex WiresShape
<conan> that's all
<roger600_> yessss
<roger600_> it's possible :)
<conan> in some ways
<conan> you already have the ability to add text
<roger600_> just time
<roger600_> yes
<conan> that is related to position
<roger600_> but only textboxes if you realize
<conan> this could maybe be done extended to that
<roger600_> on draw.io
<conan> so that you can have a region
<conan> with flow
<conan> so we might be able to generalise it
<conan> check QMX's other stuff
<roger600_> okkk
<roger600_> yes
<conan> it doesn't seem to much
<roger600_> where? in github you mean?
<conan> he's ust changing release numbers
<conan> very minor changes
<conan> hopefully this is personal time
<conan> less than an hour a day
<conan> ye
<conan> https://github.com/qmx?tab=activity
<conan> if he has personal stuff outside of that
<conan> I've no dea
<conan> idea
<roger600_> me neither 
<roger600_> yeahhh it seems to work....
<conan> it'l be easier to give a fair judment as time progresses
<roger600_> yes
<roger600_> my fault
<roger600_> i'm too impatient
<roger600_> i need things fast...
<roger600_> and tiho is waiting for us???
<conan> not quite
<conan> almost
<roger600_> okok good 
<roger600_> is what makes me a little pressure :)
<conan> he needs to work with pere
<conan> on auto form layouts
<conan> to get the layout types we need to support
<conan> he'll have to develop that
<conan> and eventually he'll need pojos
<roger600_> okk
<roger600_> thx for the update
<roger600_> as commented with pere, the idea of annotated forms.... implies that the concrete annotated form definition cannot be updated at runtime, right?
<roger600_> so we will provide default forms
<roger600_> and users can create their owns,right?
<conan> the anotation is a layout hint
<roger600_> ahh
<roger600_> ok
<conan> so you could then open it in the form designer
<roger600_> the definition wil be stored on the vfs anyway?
<conan> and change it
<roger600_> ok
<conan> but ideally we want to avoid custom stuff
<conan> if ew can
<conan> yes
<roger600_> pere did not told me so!
<roger600_> will check with hiim tomorrow
<roger600_> he probably still had no the complete picture, will check with him tomorrow np
<conan> not yet
<conan> I'm waiting for kris
<conan> to allow me ot instruct tiho
<roger600_> no... i was talking about the forms annotated
<roger600_> the told me that they will be inmutable 
<roger600_> and not
<roger600_> so he told me that the forms provided by annotations will be considered as default
<roger600_> and cannot be modiifed
<roger600_> but as said, we talked one week ago... probably he had not the copmlete picture
<conan> that would probably be fine
<conan> that the ycan't be changed
<conan> if the generation is as flexible as we need
<conan> the nthat would be good enough
<roger600_> yes
<roger600_> np for me neither
<roger600_> okk